feat: add intel_pmu plugin (#9724)
influxdata/telegraf: plugins/inputs/intel_pmu/README.md

# Intel Performance Monitoring Unit Plugin

This input plugin exposes Intel PMU (Performance Monitoring Unit) metrics available through [Linux Perf](https://perf.wiki.kernel.org/index.php/Main_Page) subsystem.

PMU metrics gives insight into performance and health of IA processor's internal components,
including core and uncore units. With the number of cores increasing and processor topology getting more complex
the insight into those metrics is vital to assure the best CPU performance and utilization.

Performance counters are CPU hardware registers that count hardware events such as instructions executed, cache-misses suffered, or branches mispredicted.
They form a basis for profiling applications to trace dynamic control flow and identify hotspots.

### Configuration:

> ```toml

Reviewer: Make sure to follow the config style guide (https://github.com/influxdata/telegraf/blob/master/docs/developers/SAMPLE_CONFIG.md#style) It looks like you have some config values here that aren't applicable to all users or are defaults that should be commented.

Sync with intel_pmu.go SampleConfig() if you make changes.

Reviewer 2: In terms of defaults, I believe that all of them are commented out. If you mean "events" or "cores"/"sockets" fields, there is a quote in guidance: "If a parameter does not have a default **or must frequently be changed then have it uncommented**". So there are parameters that need to be frequently changed like a mentioned list of events or the list of cores/sockets. They do not have a specific default value, only we check if the parameters are absent in config, we consider it as a will to obtain all possible events/cores/sockets, but this is not a very common case.

Could you point out which exactly config values here aren't applicable to all users or don't meet the guidelines? Thanks!

Reviewer 2: They change frequently and that's the most common use case for the plugin is to fill this with event names that need to be counted - so we'd keep that uncommented. But for sure we could explicitly state that fact in the comment above events field.

Added "Event names shall match names from event_definitions files" info.

# Intel Performance Monitoring Unit plugin exposes Intel PMU metrics available through Linux Perf subsystem
[[inputs.intel_pmu]]
  ## List of filesystem locations of JSON files that contain PMU event definitions.
  event_definitions = ["/var/cache/pmu/GenuineIntel-6-55-4-core.json", "/var/cache/pmu/GenuineIntel-6-55-4-uncore.json"]
  
  ## List of core events measurement entities.

>   [[inputs.intel_pmu.core_events]]

Reviewer: Are users going to understand that there can be multiple entries in this list? TOML isn't the most straightforward config language. Maybe mention that you can have more than one of core_event sections. (same goes for uncore_event below.)

Reviewer 2: Added proper mentions. Thanks!

```

where:

| Modifier | Underlying attribute            | Description                 |
|----------|---------------------------------|-----------------------------|
| config   | perf_event_attr.config	         | type-specific configuration |
| config1  | perf_event_attr.config1	        | extension of config         |
| config2  | perf_event_attr.config2	        | extension of config1        |
| p        | perf_event_attr.precise_ip	     | skid constraint             |
| k        | perf_event_attr.exclude_user	   | don't count user            |
| u        | perf_event_attr.exclude_kernel	 | don't count kernel          |
| h / H	   | perf_event_attr.exclude_guest	  | don't count in guest        |
| I        | perf_event_attr.exclude_idle	   | don't count when idle       |
| G        | perf_event_attr.exclude_hv	     | don't count hypervisor      |
| D        | perf_event_attr.pinned	         | must always be on PMU       |

### Requirements
The plugin is using [iaevents](https://github.com/intel/iaevents) library which is a golang package that makes accessing the Linux kernel's perf interface easier.

Intel PMU plugin, is only intended for use on **linux 64-bit** systems.

> Event definitions JSON files for specific architecture, could be obtained from: https://download.01.org/perfmon/. 
> Auto downloading proper events definitions could be executed with *event_download.py* script from: https://github.com/andikleen/pmu-tools. 
> We recommend keeping this files in the safe place within your system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Event definition JSON files for specific architectures can be found at https://download.01.org/perfmon/. 
A script to download the event definitions that are appropriate for your system (event_download.py) is available at https://github.com/andikleen/pmu-tools.
Please keep these files in a safe place on your system.
```

Reviewer 2: Corrected. Thanks!

This means that the values of the member events can be meaningfully compared — added, divided (to get ratios), and so on — with each other,
since they have counted events for the same set of executed instructions [(source)](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/perf_event_open.2.html).

> **NOTE:**
> Be aware that the plugin will throw an error when trying to create core event group of size that exceeds available core PMU counters.
> The error message from perf syscall will be shown as "invalid argument". If you want to check how many PMUs are supported by your Intel CPU, you can use the [cpuid](https://linux.die.net/man/1/cpuid) command.

### Note about file descriptors
The plugin opens a number of file descriptors dependent on number of monitored CPUs and number of monitored
counters. It can easily exceed the default per process limit of allowed file descriptors. Depending on
configuration, it might be required to increase the limit of opened file descriptors allowed.
This can be done for example by using `ulimit -n command`.

### Metrics 

> On each Telegraf interval, Intel PMU plugin transmits following data:

Reviewer: The metric format described in this section makes sense to me.
